# MathHunter
MathHunter: A Novel Framework for Generalized Mathematical Expression Recognition with Pretrained Decoder
In recent years, converting mathematical formula images into LaTeX expressions, known as Mathematical Expression Recognition (MER), has gained increasing attention. Existing methods primarily use sequence-based encoder-decoder architectures, focusing on visual aspects such as symbol recognition, diverse handwritten styles, and positional relationships. However, they do not guarantee LaTeX syntactic correctness and may result in compilation failure due to the lack of guidance from syntax knowledge during the decoding stage. To tackle this issue, we propose a novel universal framework, MathHunter, for complex mathematical expression recognition with a pre-trained formulation language model. Specifically, we first design a decoder-only pre-training procedure, including the masked formula reconstruction task and the correction task, on formula corpora to endow the formulation decoder with LaTeX syntax knowledge. Subsequently, images are fed into a Swin Transformer-based encoder to extract image features, and a modality connector aligns the extracted image features with the pre-trained syntactic language model. In this way, MathHunter effectively achieves end-to-end recognition and syntactic awareness without complex multi-step post-processing.
Extensive experiments on simple and complex printed, screen captured and handwritten test sets demonstrate that our generalized MathHunter not only outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods on ExpRate metric by 3.1\%, 3.8\%, 3.6\% and 0.4\%, but also significantly enhances the compilation success rate, proving the superiority of our method. Our model will be available soon.
